h1. rah_swap

p. Swap connected MySQL database on the fly. The plugin has the potential to allow pulling templates, articles and other content from different databases. Rah_swap adds a single neat "Textpattern":http://textpattern.com tag that can be used to change and bend connected database server link.

h2. List of features

* Change connected database, server or used credentials on the fly with a single tag.
* Rah_swap can be used to power a centralized database hosting template files, snippets and downloads shared across multiple sites.

h2. Requirements

p. Minimum:

* Textpattern v4.0.4 or newer.

p. Recommended:

* Textpattern v4.4.1 or newer.

h2. The tag and attributes

bc. <txp:rah_swap db="myNewDatabase" />

p. The plugin's tag is @<txp:rah_swap>@. It's a single tag, and is used to execute the database swapping magic. Attributes for it are as follows.

p. *db*
Database's name. If @db@ is the only attribute set, currently connected database is changed using current connection's credentials (user, password, host). A new link isn't created, but merely the database is swapped reusing the old connection.
Example: @db="myDatabase"@ Default: @""@

p. *user*
Username used to connect to the database.
Example: @user="username"@ Default: @""@

p. *pass*
User's password. Can be left empty if the user doesn't have a password.
Example: @pass="password"@ Default: @""@

p. *host*
The database (MySQL) server. The @host@ can contain a hostname, a port number or a path to a local socket. Defaults to @localhost@.
Example: @host="hostname.tld:3306"@ Default: @"localhost"@

p. *dbcharset*
Database's character set. Usually this attribute should *not* be used, but should be left as it is. Textpattern uses UTF-8, and using non-unicode character set can cause unexpected results.
Example: @dbcharset="latin1"@ Default: @"utf8"@

p. *client_flags*
Extra flags passed to the database client. Normally you shouldn't worry about this attribute. Usually the attribute should *not* be used.
Example: @client_flags=""@ Default: @"0"@

p. *reset*
If set to @1@, resets the original database connection the Textpattern installation uses. If the tag is used as a container, resetting is done automatically on the closing tag pair without the need of @reset@ attribute. When rah_swap's tags are used as self-closing single tags, use @reset@ when you want to resume to Textpattern's original database connection.
Example: @reset="1"@ Default: @"0"@

p. *link*
Name of predefined database credentials stack. If the @link@ attribute is defined, all other tag attributes are ignored. Instead of using the attributes, the credentials are pulled from a predefined config array stored in Textpattern's configuration file.
Example: @link="template_db"@ Default: @""@

h2. Using a separate configuration file

p. With the help of the tag's @link@ attribute, database connection credentials can be saved to Textpattern's configuration file (i.e. @/textpattern/config.php@).

p. Defining the database's connection credentials is done basically in the same way as Textpattern's core database details are defined. Rah_swap expects a global variable named as @$rah_swap@, containing a multi-dimensional array. Example stack would look similar to following:

bc. $rah_swap['db_link_name'] = array(
	'db' => 'MyDatabase',
	'user' => 'MyUsername',
	'pass' => 'MyPassword',
	'host' => 'localhost',
);

p. Where in above, @db_link_name@ would be the name of the configuration stack and would be used as a @rah_swap@ tag's @link@ attribute's value.

bc. <txp:rah_swap link="db_link_name" />

p. Multiple definitions can be set the same way. Same code, different stack name and connection details.

bc.. $rah_swap['templates'] = array(
	'db' => 'central_templates',
	'user' => 'user1',
	'pass' => 'pass1',
	'host' => 'localhost',
);

$rah_swap['promotional'] = array(
	'db' => 'promotional',
	'user' => 'user2',
	'pass' => 'pass2',
	'host' => 'localhost',
);

$rah_swap['address_book'] = array(
	'db' => 'client_network',
	'user' => 'user3',
	'pass' => 'pass3',
	'host' => 'localhost',
);

p. Connecting to those different databases then happens by using the tag's @link@ attribute.

bc.. <txp:rah_swap link="address_book" />

<!--
	Fetch something from the address book
-->

<txp:article_custom />

<!--
	Fetch something from the template db
-->

<txp:rah_swap link="templates" />

<txp:output_form form="cdn_template_banner_256x145" />

<!--
	Reset the default, original database connection
-->

<txp:rah_swap reset="1" />

p. Features and rules that apply to the tag's attributes, also apply to configuration stacks. For example, connected database can be switched while keeping the current user and connection. Just as with the tag, set only the database's name.

bc. $rah_swap['db_link_name'] = array(
	'db' => 'client_network',
);

p. Default values apply too. By default @host@ will be set as @localhost@. If your host is @localhost@, you don't have to define it.

bc. $rah_swap['db_link_name'] = array(
	'db' => 'database',
	'user' => 'username',
	'pass' => 'password',
);

h2. Examples

h3. Simple usage example

p. The tags wrapped in the @<txp:rah_swap>@ tags, will be pulled from database named as "promotional_content_db".

bc.. <txp:rah_swap db="promotional_content_db">
	<!--
		Content pulled from "promotional_content_db" database
	-->

	<txp:article_custom category="promo_2011_06">
		<txp:body />
	</txp:article_custom>
</txp:rah_swap>

p. In the example @promotional_content_db@ would be a database used by second Textpattern installation. The installation would be used to host promotional content and campaigns redistributed to multiple sites.

h3. Showing downloads from a second installation

bc. <txp:rah_swap db="2ndSiteWithDLD">
	<txp:file_download>
		<txp:file_download_link>
			<txp:file_download_name />
		</txp:file_download_link>
	</txp:file_download>
</txp:rah_swap>

p. Above serves file downloads from _2ndSiteWithDLD_ database using Textpattern's "file_download":http://textpattern.net/wiki/index.php?title=file_download, "file_download_link":http://textpattern.net/wiki/index.php?title=file_download_link and "file_download_name":http://textpattern.net/wiki/index.php?title=file_download_name tags.